---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
  - footer
---

# Welcome to MENTORED Testbed

## What is the MENTORED Project?

The MENTORED project is a cooperative project among the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), the Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPE), the University of São Paulo (USP), the Federal Institute of Santa Catarina (IFSC), the University of Vale do Itajai and National Education and Research Network (RNP). It has been selected as a thematic project in the MCTIC/CGI/FAPESP 2018 public call. The project has the following main goals:

1. Identify, model, and evaluate malicious behavior related to IoT; 

2. Help in the construction of advanced and coordinated solutions to enable: prevention, prediction, detection, and mitigation of DDoS attacks; 

3. Provide to the scientific community in Cybersecurity a testbed to allow researchers to experiment their solutions regarding to DDoS attacks.

For further details about the project, visit [https://mentored.dcc.ufmg.br](https://mentored.dcc.ufmg.br)

## What is the MENTORED Testbed?

The MENTORED Testbed is a cybersecurity experimentation environment for evaluating solutions to combat high-impact attacks, such as DDoS attacks, generated by IoT devices. It provides a basic infrastructure for researchers to define and run their experiments. To this end, it features a virtualization or containerization environment, taking into account various criteria such as security and usability.

The testbed provides a basic infrastructure for researchers, including a set of virtual machines or containers, network configurations, and traffic generators. Researchers can use this infrastructure to design and run their experiments, evaluating the performance, effectiveness, and reliability of their proposed solutions against different attack scenarios.

The MENTORED Testbed is designed to be flexible, allowing researchers to customize their experiments based on their specific requirements. It also considers important criteria such as security and usability, ensuring that the testbed environment is secure and easy to use.

## Using the MENTORED Testbed

The MENTORED Testbed is available for researchers and students in computer science and related fields. To access the system, follow the instructions in Getting Started. Learn more at [https://portal.mentored.ccsc-research.org/](https://portal.mentored.ccsc-research.org/).